hi everyone laszlo Montgomery here again
thanks for downloading this episode of
the China history podcast at long last
we finished off the dung Xiaoping
overview and today I want to introduce
someone who was a true legend and a gold
standard in Chinese history and culture
yet the subject of today's topic is
probably not too well known outside
China we're going to go back about nine
hundred years before dung Xiaoping was
born to the beginning of the 11th
century the early part of the Song
Dynasty today we will look at oh young
show it's that Oh young name again one
of the more common Chinese compound
surnames of more than one syllable he's
referred to in multiple sources as
China's Leonardo da Vinci he's called
this not at all due to his abilities as
a great artist he's compared to the
lesser of Leonardo's claims to fame his
being a universal man homo universalis
you know back in the day when the entire
accumulation of world knowledge could
fit in a thimble compared to today you
often had these polymaths these
Renaissance men universal men who
excelled and in fact interest excel but
were giants in multiple subjects in the
West we have well Leonardo Galileo
Copernicus Francis Bacon Rasmus Newton
well in China they had their versions of
these very very smart people who left
their mark in history and their impact
and influence on all the generations who
followed them o young show was a
statesman a compiler of history's a
calligrapher poet and a writer his
career was dedicated to the state in
this case the Song Dynasty Emperor's he
served with distinction was dedicated to
the preservation of learning for future
generations in a culture that venerates
their scholars and clean up right
officials of an earlier time o young
show is maybe one of the more well-known
examples from Chinese history he lived
from 1007 at ten
72 the northern song dynasty had only
been in existence for 47 years it was in
960 if you recall that Joe kuan-yin had
at last picked up the last of the pieces
that were the five dynasties and ten
kingdoms and United China under a single
ruler well most of China as it was for
most of history china was rimmed on the
periphery with all these non hon Turkish
Tibetan Mongol Manchu types not to
mention all those various peoples of the
Golden Triangle area where you non Burma
Thailand Laos and Vietnam are all
located but historical China proper at
least belonged to the Chinese and was
unified now just to back up and review
these are from the earlier China history
podcast episodes 26 27 28 the Tang
Dynasty fell after a long period of
decay in 907 ad their vanquished in
China crumbles into pieces there's the
five dynasties and ten kingdoms that
lasted for 70 years until like I said
zhang quan yin comes in and founds the
Song Dynasty now up in the North the
Ketan empire of the liao dynasty was
still going strong and he had some
staying power they were thriving and
would last until Kublai Khan's Mongols
did to them what they did to everyone
else actually the curtains or cheat done
were Mongols themselves who had migrated
from Mongolia to the area that is now
Inner Mongolia Manchuria they hung out
there from the fall of the tongue in 907
until 11 25 and it's right around this
time that the Jurchens booted the Song
Dynasty out of the north of China from
their capital at present day Chi phone
and they regrouped later south of the
Yangtze River in present-day Hangzhou so
that's the big picture if you want to
recalibrate your mental timeline there
so we have the northern song first and
that's followed by the southern song
this was all covered in China history
podcast episodes 28 and 29 so o young
show is born
into the early part of the song during
the reign of the third emperor Johnson
early 11th century AD this is the late
Middle Ages the Scandinavian region had
just been converted to Christianity the
Capetian dynasty ruled in France
Romanesque art and architecture was all
the rage it was the Golden Age of Kiev
up in Russia Vladimir the great head
brought Christianity to Russia his usual
forceful way the Holy Roman Empire was
just starting the Byzantine church had
just broken with Rome the northern song
was unfolding in China right about the
time you could say just before their
first crusade so there's your point of
reference with what was happening in the
West the important thing to know to keep
in mind about this period was that it
marked a time when there was a very
sudden shift in a positive direction i
might add in the economy of China and in
intellectual life China at this point
still centuries ahead of the Christian
West as far as the main measuring sticks
go you know technologically commercially
politically in the arts and sciences and
in literature the thing about the song
dynasty which I went into some detail in
episode 28 was that it was such an
incubator for new ideas for art
literature everything this was the time
when the kilns edging the John were
established that put out so many ancient
Song Dynasty ceramic treasures this
early song period it truly was a golden
age of learning and a flowering of the
Arts if there ever was one movable type
printing had recently been invented and
this head resulting in a big bang of
books flooding into Chinese society and
doing all the good and positive things
books did and still do today this was
China's Gutenberg moment and we all know
at Gutenberg did for Europe in the mid
15th century right about now the early
song is the time when rice takes over in
China is the king of grains China always
being
you know mostly a northern kind of a
place predominantly used wheat well not
anymore and these advances in rice
cultivation double the population during
the period of the song China's
population hits nine figures for the
first time the song economy also saw an
unprecedented expansion in size and
diversity service industries that never
existed before suddenly popped up all
over these cities within the force of
gravity of the Grand Canal and it was a
young show arguably more than anyone
else who exemplified all that was
possible from all this new learning he
was good and all the things that
mattered to the scholarly class he was a
brilliant statesman master calligrapher
trusted for his sagacious pneus his
literary skills from pros to poetry he
had a profound influence on an age that
historians look back on his one of the
golden ages of China he mentored a whole
stable of young men of talent who
carried on his reforms and ideas long
after he passed mostly he's remembered
for his contributions and calligraphy
literature and historiography rather
than as a statesman he was a major force
in the early part of his career with
many ideas he had for making the
government better but later on in the
second half of his career he couldn't
get any respect and sort of distanced
himself from the reform movement if you
remember from the previous episode 28
one of the things that set the Song
Dynasty apart from the other major
dynasties the tongue hun was that these
people who rose to these high spots in
the government were all new men not the
landed gentry that had rural China and
enjoyed all the best privileges benefits
of their connections it had always been
like this since the very beginning the
northern aristocrats had always been the
Kennedys Windsor's Habsburgs of their
day now in these sometimes people like a
young show who came from modest non
aristocratic background were rising two
positions of great power and influence
merrily on the back of their
industriousness
effectiveness at getting things done and
exhibiting the kind of sagacity that was
so revered since Confucian times so the
song rulers open those floodgates for
men of talent to rise in society and to
serve the Emperor o young show was not
only from a common background he was a
southern ER to boot you see southern
China that is the part of china south of
the Yangtze River all those provinces
who nahncy chuang shang qi guai jo jo
jung fujian guangdong guanxi this part
of China even only going back as far as
the Song Dynasty over a thousand years
ago these parts of China were like our
Wild West hair in the US these were also
you know Han Chinese but there was also
a good number of non Han people on the
fringes of the south and a lot of these
people from Tibet Yunnan vietnam in some
of the areas Southeast Asia they
had been mixing with the Hans of the
south for centuries so coming from the
south of China and mixing with the
northerners at least prior to the Song
Dynasty that is sort of put you at a
social disadvantage you know only in
terms of prevailing attitudes at the
time how northern Chinese might view
their status and the grand scheme of
things compared to those southerners who
are always so far from all the action
you know in Chang'an or law yun chung
cho chi Fong in any case now in the Song
Dynasty China had reached this stage and
its social and political development and
the 90 or 100 million or so people who
made up the Chinese population around
then had already started to bind
together more and there was less and
less of this northern or southern her
thing than before o yon show was born in
Sichuan but his roots were near chi anh
chung she so they had more than
qualified him to be a southern er
actually he never lived in genk she his
father was a civil servant who served as
a minor official in suit one and this is
where oh yun show was born and grew up
so he was one of that growing crop of
budding scholar bureaucrats who were
able to cut that incredibly durable link
to their
ancestral village or town Oh Jung
home was wherever he happened to be
serving at the time and at the end of
his days after serving all over China he
picked foo young in on way as his
retirement place now that's quite an
endorsement for that town Oh young show
always made a good living but he didn't
take advantage of his position in the
government to enrich himself or acquire
all the obvious trappings of wealth Oh
young emerged onto the scene in China
through the hard work of his father who
died when he was young and from his
uncle's were all civil servants there
were also other Oh young family members
all from the south of China who had gone
through the whole civil service exam
system received their gene shared
degrees and rose up the ladder based on
their own achievements so the path that
o young show followed well multiply this
by a lot the time had finally come when
there was some upward mobility for this
whole slice of the population they began
to slowly work the whole civil service
exam system get appointments if they got
their genes shared degree and then
possibly go on to make their mark in the
government in Chinese society o young
show was essentially raised by his
mother illiterate woman they were cared
for bio Young's uncle and how much of
their poverty is true or exaggerated is
unknown he exhibited all the early signs
that are common to pretty much all
scholars wherever they are in the world
voracious reader excelling in all
subjects exhibiting that discipline
required in these early years to ensure
academic success later on it said that
during his formative years growing up he
was exposed to the writings of Han you
hon you was a late Tang Dynasty essayist
writer of prose and was influential in
launching the neo-confucian as a
movement that exploded onto the scene in
the Song Dynasty it was Han you and Leo
who laid all the groundwork to bring
Confucianism back to life and o young
show was heavily influenced by these
writings in the whole matter
of confucianism and its role and
government was a very big deal during
the song period hanyu and later o young
show may I say no fans of Buddhism but
the Confucian estate ads with the
Buddhists with so much at stake all the
time Oh young show failed in his first
and second attempts to pass the civil
service exam which shows you how hard it
was but he got it by his third try in
1030 when he was 22 years old his first
posting was in law young which you no
doubt all recall from the previous
podcasts had served as the capital of
the eastern joe dynasty and a few
smaller dynasties and made a comeback in
the tongue dynasty serving as the
Eastern capital Western capital of
course being in Chang'an now law yang
was not the capital of the northern song
but because of its historical and
cultural past it still retained a role
as a cultural center and attracted all
manners of literati so young o young
show was thrown into this world that was
populated with many scholar bureaucrats
just like himself young holders of gene
shared degrees and these comrades would
do the 11th century version of hanging
out and carousing together and lacking
all the cool and amazing stuff we have
today in our world one of the things
these birds of a feather who o young
show ran with they would share their
writings and study and recite the works
of the great poets like Han you write
poetry visit the Chinese versions of
japanese geisha houses where these
ladies were very cultivated and literate
many no less witty and talented than
their customers this period saw a major
boom in the courtesan business and that
my friends is how a young show spent his
20s in law young and that's where he
began to acquire his reputation not just
as a partier and ladies man but also as
a budding poet and writer as well as an
able administrator like many
intellectuals at the time he loved to
stick together with people of his own
ilk his whole life he loved to surround
himself with smart people and he
mentored many
aspiring scholar officials who owe their
entire careers to his early sponsorship
and this was not only people who had Oh
Young's political views he cultivated
all manners of young intellectuals even
those of differing views who later
turned against him late in life many
came to disagree with a young show after
northern song political life became rife
with factions but no one could deny him
his do as a fair and honest man who had
done a lot to further the careers of
many officials without lining his
pockets or any of that funny stuff the
Song Dynasty was a time of change and
wherever there's change in the air
there's always a lot of resistance and
this problem of factionalism at court
more than once caused a young show to
falter there are two names mainly
associated with Aayan show the first is
the Confucian ideal as fond jeongyeon
and the other is one unsure fun comes
first fan jeongyeon was your typical new
man who had risen up the ladder and now
that he was in a position of influence
he joined in the rallying cry for
reforms of the government the military
and the civil service exam system o
young show was one of funds protges we
mentioned fun in episode 28 they both
saw certain aspects of China's past as
the key to resolving China's present
problems they blame Buddhism as one of
the chief ultimate causes of all the
corruption and governments fan jeongyeon
one day made what in retrospect would be
a grievous error when he the mayor
prefect of Kaifeng openly criticized a
high-ranking official at court saying
that he had shown favoritism at court
and the appointment of officials fun had
proposed reforms that would settle this
matter how to avoid favoritism and
appointments to the government the
Conservatives jumped all over funchal
yen on this and he had to run for cover
they convinced the Emperor that fun was
trying to sow discord at the top and the
Emperor he went along for the ride but
this wasn't before o young show rose to
the defense of his mentor and colleague
criticizing funds lead attacker and for
this
Oh young show miscalculated for even
though he was a respected voice in the
central government and by now renowned
for his literary accomplishments he
wasn't immune to the forces of Imperial
politics intrigue the drumbeat during
the early part of the song for reform in
China was pretty steady and we probably
don't have to look any further than our
own politics of the day to see that both
sides were playing for keeps and the
conservative faction was prepared to go
to the mattresses to oppose all of these
reforms they were no pushover and not to
be taken lightly all of these new men
who had risen fair and square they were
not well liked by media conservative
faction so o young show he takes a fall
back in those days your punishment for
these kinds of things was demotion to a
less prestigious posting somewhere out
in the provinces ano yung shows case
this was out Western who Bay if you
recall from episode 28 concurrent with
the northern song dynasty you had the
Liao dynasty to the north and the
Western shadynasty to the west of the
Liao the Leo made a military move on the
northern song and they almost made it to
chi Fong but before this could happen
the northern song in 1004 cried uncle
and signed the treaty of Shan UN again
this is all in episode 28 on the
northern song basically the song ruler
said okay we'll pay you this ridiculous
amount of silver and silk whatnot and
you guys just hang back and leave us
alone don't harass us and so this was
the kind of peace that was made then the
Western Shah got wind of this and they
also wanted a piece of the action so
with this potentially explosive
situation on their hands the Western
Xiao Tong goats and these kittens and
also the Jurchens to the North they were
all breathing down the Emperor's neck
you know times were great and the
economy was vibrant it was an amazing
time of economic expansion in China but
still it was a huge strain on the
Treasury to keep paying these guys off
just so that they leave the Han Chinese
alone the Emperor remembered that it was
always the disgraced
fan jeongyeon who had advocated for
military reform before the Emperor no
doubt regretted not listening to him so
fun is recalled to chi Fong to develop a
strategy to defend against these
on-again off-again barbarian nemec's and
then a famous story which you know show
just what kind of a guy old young show
was he really wanted to get a chance to
get a posting out west to participate in
this war I guess he had you know great
military aspirations or something short
story he didn't get the posting but fine
jeongyeon did get sent to defend against
the Western shot and he used his
influence to get a young show a posting
as a kind of secretary or something but
alas this noble and upright official
this model of character he refused the
offer because he didn't want to take
advantage of his guanxi his relationship
with fun so he passed on this shot to
achieve one of his dreams and of course
today a thousand years after his death
we're still talking about these things
and you know what a stand-up guy o young
show was given his reputation as a
scholar he was given a somewhat
gargantuan task and this was to prepare
an annotated catalogue of the 80,000
volume Imperial library this was known
as the Joan wen zhong wu it's one of the
other interesting things o young show
was credited with he also pioneered the
field of archaeology in his efforts to
provide evidence to back up the
histories written and handed down
through the ages o young show arranged
for any and all kinds of evidence to be
gathered for study cataloging and
preservation these would be things like
stone rubbings from ancient artifacts or
temples this whole perry at the 11th
12th 13th centuries in china were
periods when many compilations were made
of ancient and not so ancient texts
encyclopedias were written ancient
relics were categorized and inventoried
you know everything we know about
ancient China today it all came from
these guys who from time to time
throughout the centuries since even
before samad chin in the
han dynasty these scholars like Oh young
show they they appeared every now and
then and before too much got lost they
would take stock of everything that had
been written and had happened since
previous records were written and they
catalogued these things copied them
commented on them and went to all kinds
of efforts to preserve China's past it's
not like 250 years a US history I mean
by the time o yon show came along it had
been 2,000 years since Joe gone so you
know a lot of Chinese wisdom tended to
accumulate so when people like Oh young
show came along and did such a bang-up
job of organizing everything it has
provided no small amount of benefit to
later generations who look to ancient
China for some wisdom or precedent now
it's common knowledge that histories
were altered and who knows how much of
what made it down to these times is true
how much was fabricated exaggerated or
tweaked you know in China being able to
look back in history to find some
precedent to justify some modern
political action was always an effective
means to an end so liberties were often
taken to tweak things to serve the
interests of the later dynasty who was
compiling that particular history one
example would be how oh young show in
one of his historical masterworks the
sheen died shared the new history of the
five dynasties about that period
immediately preceding the song he
famously removed the later Liang dynasty
leaving only four dynasties instead of
five so horrible cruel and wretched were
the later the young rulers Oh young show
said it was better to remove them and
pour scorn on them so as to let later
generations know what weighted those who
chose the rough and uncivilized ways
employed by the later Liang Dynasty
Kings so as far as a young show was
concerned it wasn't five dynasties and
ten kingdoms there are only four
dynasties this was a very good example
how it was done I don't know if you can
characterize it as revisionism but
faqs certainly had some flavoring added
during the reign of the rental emperor
fourth ampere of the northern song he
was like Tang Shen Zhong the Tang
Dynasty ruler of young qui fait Fame he
ruled not only when the dynasty hit its
peak but also when the dynasty began
it's slow decline and so it was with the
long-reigning red and song Emperor just
as you had conservative and reform
factions at the capitol in chi Fong you
also had factions that call to maintain
the policy of pacification with the Liao
and Western sha the flip side of that
political viewpoint was the faction that
called for the Emperor to stand up and
fight they wanted to whip the military
in the shape and go out and teach these
Tanguts and church ins and ketones a
thing or two and it was under the red
zone Emperor that these reformers
prevailed and you had the so-called
Ching Lee reforms named after the regnal
name of one of the periods and Ren zones
Emperor ship this was from 1041 to 1048
these also were referred to as the minor
reforms to differentiate them from the
major reforms which will speak about a
minute also the kingly reforms these
were led by Han Xiang Yin & o young show
they were put in effect between 1043 and
1045 over much resistance at court but
just as fast as these reforms were put
into effect the Emperor Ren's own well
you know this always happens someone was
able to whisper in his air the right
words and wouldn't you know at all the
reforms were rescinded and the reformers
were put on the defenses and there was a
major anti-reform backlash so once again
feng zhong yen was dismissed from his
post and sent into oblivion to toil away
at various government posts far from
where all the Rio action was oh young
show as well he had to take a bullet to
and despite his fame and his good name
he ended up in various positions and the
provinces in 10 49 he gets called back
to the imperial court for some minor
posting and as soon as he gets back his
mother dies according to the
way they did things back then the period
of mourning was a couple years and this
was spent mostly in the town of you Joe
in foo Yong in on way he was serving
there as an official during his period
of semi disgrace and found this place to
his liking and started to build his
retirement nest there according to the
tradition he had to take his parents
back to their ancestral home this was in
Gem she province so he carried out this
filial task that was demanded of him
according to the tradition it was just
like that movie the road home what a flu
chin mooch in my favorite director Jang
emo love that movie in 1054 the year the
crab nebula blue and was noticed by
astronomers and Song Dynasty China Arab
world and in Japan o young show returned
to court and was received by the Emperor
Ren's own who gave him the posting of
hanlon academician I don't know I guess
you could call this something like the
scholar general it was quite an honorary
post was an acknowledgment of a young
shows eminence in the field of learning
for the next several years until 1060 he
compiled another history this one the
sheen punctual or the new book of tongue
this was about the tang dynasty of
course later on after that he was made a
kind of ambassador emissary to the Liao
dynasty catan people he was he was a
real rock star in front of these guys I
mean we may have referred to these
people as barbarians but that is hardly
true Chinese culture was very much
admired and passionately studied outside
of Han China and in those days if you
wanted to talk about some good poetry
and prose writing no one beat o young
show and he was a real big name in his
day by this time it was a very high
ranking official of no small repute and
someone with his magnitude of prestige
was always sought out by the Emperor for
one ceremonial task or another so by the
ten 60s o young show is a living legend
at the height of his prestige not only
was he hanlon academician he was also
vice Commissioner military affairs
vice-minister of
revenue and assistant chief counselor he
was a major force at the top levels of
the government but o young show by this
time had become a gradualist he had
tried to push through reforms in the
past him had his efforts explode in his
face a couple times now he's in his 60s
and wiser any had at last reached the
pinnacle of his career and I guess he
didn't have any fight left in him but
you know how it is everywhere politics
is all the same wherever you go and
there was no lack of aspiring
politicians out to get a young show to
bring him down further their own agenda
a favorite pastime of all politicians
one official brought serious charges
against him and in 1067 he was charged
with carrying on an incestuous
relationship with his daughter in law
among other things and you know his past
history is sort of a man who had the eye
for the ladies didn't help him much in
this case this wasn't true and everyone
knew this was nothing but a political
smear but you know how it is and in this
campaign year in the USA these tactics
to say something horrific about a
candidate and then backtrack or have
proxies make outlandish charges that
others can secretly support and at the
same time have complete deniability this
tactic works today and let me tell you
it worked back in the Song Dynasty too
so this charge had the desired effect
and oh young show fell victim to this
intrigue and was of course you know
devastated like the other time so young
show was sent out to various places to
serve you know because of the
circumstances you know who he was the
shadiness of the charges brought against
him he was allowed to work in postings
that kept him within the immediate orbit
of his home near foo young in on way he
offered his resignation on a number of
occasions always being refused but in
1071 when he reached the official
retirement age is wish to retire was
granted and he remained an on way to the
end of his days which unfortunately
weren't destined to be that long a year
after his retirement o young show died
he died during the reign of the Shenzhen
emperor the sixth song Emperor this was
an emperor who wholeheartedly embraced
many of the reforms that oh young show
and fun jeongyeon had once called for in
their minor reforms but sadly 40 young
and fun those two carried out their
campaign for reform in the government
education and how society was organized
during the time when the pushback from
an easily manipulated Rendon song
Emperor and strong resistance from the
conservatives ensured their failure now
a new emperor was on the throne and this
was the time of the then Nanjing
governor one unsure right man at the
right time Oh young show he was the
right man at the wrong time I guess you
might say you see a whole slew of
reforms were past that we're all
credited to one shirt so although oh
young and wang were very much from a
similar mold history records that the
new policies and reforms that vastly
overhauled how things were in China were
credited to one unsure instead but as
we'll find out perhaps on another day
Huang unsure reform suffered from a
major dose of meddling by political
factions notably the great song
historian Sima Kwang soo ma Guang is on
my list of future topics he was a
hardcore conservative who worked
overtime to scale back and delay some
measures 19 sure called for with the
Emperor's backing soo ma used his
powerful position to sort of I guess he
could say make a mockery of these
reforms there's nothing like political
force of will and bureaucratic
resistance to gum up the wheels of
progress okay we'll stop here today and
I hope you all grooved on this little
slice from Song Dynasty China we
revisited a lot of things we discussed
in the northern song podcast episode 28
but we focused in on the whole aspect of
reform and the interesting dynamic that
existed in China at this time it really
was a fantastic period for China the
tang dynasty was great and all but if I
had to choose i'd pick the first hundred
years of the Song Dynasty as the time I
wouldn't mind traveling back to I'm sure
the hygiene was better in the song
the tongue anyway besides the four names
I mentioned all great scholars writers
poets of the early song Oh young show
fan zhang yan wang unsure sama Guang
there were many many others sooo sure
the great painter John Sablan the poet
mae yao hun there were a lot of great
minds walking around china during the
11th century tion quoi also it was shun
qua you recall who first mentioned one
of the four great inventions of the
ancient world the compass he mentioned
this in his work the dream pool essays
Hmong she beat on I think this might be
the last podcast that i will upload to
the old website this means that if you
don't subscribe to the new feed you
won't be able to get the next ten
thousand episodes so if you notice after
a few weeks that there are no further
updates to the China history podcast
I've either been abducted by aliens or
you're subscribed to the old feed and
again i apologize for all this hassle
and extra work i'm asking you to do I
know it's quite an imposition please
don't hold me in too much contempt over
that hey go check out the seneca podcast
from january 12th the year and round up
for certifiable junghwa tongues recap
all the big stories in china from you
know various angles and of course
fantastic commentary from people who
know what they're talking about you can
find them as part of the pop-up chinese
podcast that was a good show this is
laszlo Montgomery signing off as I do
most of the time from Claremont
California join us next time won't you
for another presumptuous of me exciting
episode of the China history podcast